DOC: update the installation documentation (#1396)
shapely/shapely: docs/installation.rst

Installation
============

Built distributions
-------------------

> Built distributions don't require to compile Shapely and its Dependencies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built distributions don't require to compile Shapely and its dependencies,
```

Installation
============

Built distributions
-------------------

Built distributions don't require to compile Shapely and its dependencies,
and can be installed using ``pip`` or ``conda``. In addition, Shapely is also

> available via system package management tools like apt, yum, and Homebrew.

Author: Yeah, I copied this from the text in the README, but agreed that we should maybe not mention it (certainly if it is not even possible, like in the case of Homebrew).

> (installing GEOS via package manager then compiling Shapely using that may make sense, but as an advanced case)

I think that is indeed a use case. I certainly have seen issues of people install GEOS with brew, and then installing shapely on top of that. But then that doesn't belong in this section.

> available via system package management tools like apt, yum, and Homebrew.

Author: Shapely 1.8 seems to be available on debian unstable (https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=python3-shapely), so that seems relatively up to date. 
So maybe I will generalize the sentence a bit, and remove the reference of Homebrew.

Shapely is available as a binary distribution (wheel) for Linux, macOS and Windows platforms.
The distribution includes a GEOS version that was most recent at the time of the Shapely release.
Install the binary wheel with pip as follows::

    $ pip install shapely

Installation using conda
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shapely is available on the conda-forge channel. Install as follows::

    $ conda install shapely --channel conda-forge

Installation from source with custom GEOS libary
------------------------------------------------

You may want to use a specific GEOS version or a GEOS distribution that is already present on
your system (for example for compatibility with other modules that depend on GEOS, such as
cartopy or osgeo.ogr). In such cases you will need to ensure the GEOS library is install
and then compile Shapely yourself, installing it from source (by directing pip to ignore
the binary wheels).

On Linux::

    $ sudo apt install libgeos-dev  # skip this if you already have GEOS
    $ pip install shapely --no-binary shapely

On macOS::

    $ brew install geos  # skip this if you already have GEOS
    $ pip install shapely --no-binary shapely

> If you've installed GEOS to a standard location, the installation will automatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've installed GEOS to a standard location on Linux or macOS, the installation will automatically
```

find it using ``geos-config``. See the notes below on GEOS discovery at compile time
to configure this.

We do not have a recipe for Windows platforms. The following steps should enable you
to build Shapely yourself:

- Get a C compiler applicable to your Python version (https://wiki.python.org/moin/WindowsCompilers)
- Download and install a GEOS binary (https://trac.osgeo.org/osgeo4w/)
- Set GEOS_INCLUDE_PATH and GEOS_LIBRARY_PATH environment variables (see below for notes on GEOS discovery)
- Run ``pip install shapely --no-binary``
- Make sure the GEOS .dll files are available on the PATH

> Installation of development version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installation for local development
```

-----------------------------------

> The same as installation with a custom GEOS binary, but then instead of installing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is similar to installing with a custom GEOS binary, but then instead of installing
```

Shapely with pip from PyPI, you clone the package from Github::

    $ git clone git@github.com:shapely/shapely.git
    $ cd shapely/

Install it in development mode using ``pip``::

    $ pip install -e .[test]

For development, use of a virtual environment is strongly recommended. For example
using ``venv``:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python3 -m venv .
    $ source bin/activate
    (env) $ pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    (env) $ pip install -e .

Or using ``conda``:

.. code-block:: console

    $ conda create -n env python=3 geos numpy cython pytest
    $ conda activate env
    (env) $ pip install -e .

Testing Shapely
---------------

Shapely can be tested using ``pytest``::

    $ pip install pytest  # or shapely[test]
    $ pytest --pyargs shapely.tests

GEOS discovery (compile time)
-----------------------------

> If GEOS is installed on Linux or macOS, normally the ``geos-config`` command line utility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If GEOS is installed on Linux or macOS the ``geos-config`` command line utility should be available
```

will be available and ``pip`` will find GEOS automatically.
If the correct ``geos-config`` is not on the PATH, you can add it as follows (on Linux/macOS)::

    $ export PATH=/path/to/geos/bin:$PATH

> Alternatively, you can specify where Shapely should look for GEOS (on Linux/macOS)::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can specify where Shapely should look for GEOS library and header files using environment variables (on Linux/macOS)::
```
